babe hey what's up guys I'm to be HD
here ok so you may have been following
or the last two weeks or so I've been
doing a giant blind smartphone camera
test so not for phones not five not ten
we've done this huge bracket style
showdown with sixteen phones so starting
out the idea was originally gonna be a
normal couple of phones like we've done
in the past so you get pixel three in
there you get iPhone 10s then you kind
of want like a mate 20 Pro Galaxy Note 9
and then probably red hydrogen but then
you leave out LG v 40 we might want to
get one plus 60 in there and then by
that time the choice is getting kind of
tough so we had an idea so instead of
just taking my subjective top view and
then leaving some out let's just take
them all let's just take all of them so
we took 16 phones all of which that have
come out in the past year - all of which
have cameras so pixel 3 pixel 2 iPhone
10's iPhone 10 Samsung Galaxy Note 9
Huawei p20 Pro Huawei mate 20 Pro red
hydrogen LG v 41 plus 60 razor phone -
HTC u12 plus moto Z - force poco phone
f1 blackberry key - and the palm phone
so clearly a healthy variety of phones a
variety of cameras and all they all have
their own sort of strengths and
weaknesses they all have different
characteristics to them and there's too
many now to just try to recognize them
all so you might say oh that one looks
like the pixel so the other one must be
the iPhone no there's there's too many
is just gonna go down to instinct some
of them will get knocked out quick some
of them will make it much further so
it's the People's Choice winner takes
all
bracket style and lots of voting so
bracket and then there was seating so
you just heard the names of the phones
there was a million ways we could have
done this we basically wanted to seed
them somewhat to make it make sense but
we didn't want to have the same phones
like pixel three versus pixel two
against each other liyan one iPhone 10
versus 10s in the first round so we had
to randomize it somewhat so people don't
know what they're voting for but once we
do that then we can kind of see it play
out so we filled in the seeds a through
P
signed every phone a letter and then
went to work so we went out and took the
exact same photo with every phone for
each round we tried to pick some scenes
ahead of a variety of things happening
almost all of them had skin tones of
some sort because people take pictures
of people and then there were some some
colors some dynamic range some depth of
field happening blue sky sometimes red
backpack other times pretty healthy
variety but nothing too scientific
then we stitched together the photos
that would be compared to each other for
every round and let them loose I hosted
the viewing and voting in two places as
you've probably seen by now
Instagram stories and Twitter Instagram
makes sense that's where a lot of people
are on their phones looking at photos
anyway and that's where people share
them and take them and with a little
help from Twitter I got to use images in
polls for the first time so he posted
there too so people could vote then we
totaled the votes for every matchup
every round and that's where things got
pretty fun and interesting so altogether
there were more than 5 million votes on
Instagram stories and over a million
votes in Twitter polls and you're
probably wondering what people voted for
you might even be wondering if you voted
what you voted for so here's how it went
here's the bracket and the starting
seeds from a all the way through P now
if you didn't get the chance to vote on
social already look at this bracket and
go ahead and pause and fill it in now
how you think it would go you have the
advantage of knowing all the phones
go ahead fill it in I'll wait trust me
it'll be worth it so round one the photo
of me outside red Heather jacket with
yellow divider behind me clouds in the
background skin tones pretty much
everything in round one mate 20 Pro beat
the palm phone easily razor phone -
crushed 1 + 60 then LGV 40 beat pixel -
blackberry key to beat iPhone 10s Huawei
P 20 Pro beat pixel 3 hydrogen
slaughtered moto Z - force and Galaxy
Note 9 barely beats HTC you 12 plus and
then polka phone beat iPhone 10 ok a a
lot of what I would call upsets I'll be
honest if I was betting like if I had
filled this out just kind of what I
thought it would be like a March Madness
style thing bracket already busted let's
be real you probably didn't see this we
probably didn't see that coming
some weird stuff happening but it is
actually already kind of starting to
make sense there's reasons for what
we're seeing here I'll explain later
round two this was the hot sauce photo
so in my hand
you got warm colors cool background not
portrait mode normal photo pretty simple
mate 20 Pro beats razor phone 2
blackberry key 2 beats LGV 40 red
hydrogen overcomes P 20 Pro and the
Polka phone barely beats Galaxy Note 9
it actually got less votes on Twitter
but enough more votes on Instagram to
overcome it and win I think that's what
I would consider an upset again
happening over there but there's still a
lot of things that make sense some
things that don't but we'll save that to
the end next round round 3 this is the
semi-finals we have the red backpack on
the brown table blue sky and clouds in
the background plus a little shadow
happening on the right a lot of tones
here again in this photo mate 20 Pro
finally beats blackberry and a polka
phone f1 dethrones the red hydrogen that
is a alright last round finals it is
again skin tones red backpack blue sky
and true depth of field happening with
the fence some contrast things etc and
mate Tony Pro cleans up easily beating
the polka phone raise your hand if you
had a perfect bracket put your hand down
you're lying there are some pretty big
upsets here a lot of strange things
happening but now that we have all the
photos and we have all the voting
results we can take a look back at what
happened when and why and that it
actually starts to make some sense so
looking back now at every round
what spoke to me was apparently the most
important thing to people when viewing
these photos straight at a camera was
just exposure brightness basically nine
times out of ten the brighter more
saturated more punchy contrast the photo
won every single round it's pretty
consistent there are other differences
between the photos always color science
dynamic range sharpness even the focal
length sometimes and background
compression but the brighter photo
almost always won the thing is there's
not a whole lot
you know side-by-side photo comparisons
happening on social media like Twitter
and Instagram you kind of just like what
you like but as soon as you put them
next to each other then people's eyes
just tend to go to the brighter photo
and then compression of Twitter and
Instagram pretty much ruins any
sharpness or detail advantage that the
actually great cameras tend to lean on
and the differences in dynamic range
weren't really all that dramatic in the
photos that I was taking so it just came
down to which one looked brighter next
to the other one the brighter punch your
photo the funny thing is and we all know
this already but the brighter photo
doesn't necessarily make it the better
photo
often people like me and maybe some of
you are actually looking for something a
little more natural in a photo when
we're evaluating a camera I've said
before I'm a big fan of the pixel 3s
camera that has a slightly flatter more
natural neutral photo with a lot of
dynamic range and detail that's what
it's good at the more information the
better because that's what photo I can
bend and adjust to make it look like
what I want later which might be
brighter or not depends on me but as
soon as you put the flat neutral image
side by side with a bright fully
processed looking one people's eyes went
straight for the more finished looking
photo so there's a first-round matchup
that illustrates this beautifully
perfectly and that's iPhone 10s versus
Blackberry I thought that was gonna be a
gimme I put them up against each other
because I figured it like any first
round bracket play that's kind of a
gimme for the powerhouse iPhone will
probably win that right well this is the
iPhone 10s photo pretty damn good if you
ask me and this is the BlackBerry photo
a similar but a very different photo the
BlackBerry sensor is much smaller it
biases a little warmer and color
temperature but generally it is way less
sharp and less detailed than the iPhone
in fact the BlackBerry sensor is getting
so much less light even outdoors and the
processing is so bad that it actually
thought the heather of my sweatshirt was
noise in the photo and it tries to noise
reduce or like smooth out the noise in
my sweatshirt so there is no detail in
parts of my sweatshirt here but the
iPhone kept it all sharp and detailed
from top to bottom but when you toss it
up on Twitter or Instagram the
compression is garbage
so you can forget about any sharpness or
detail advantage you might have and that
just leaves you with the BlackBerry
photo being a little bit brighter a
little bit warmer and a little bit more
colourful than the more natural neutral
one from the iPhone and that was all it
took because when you put them
side-by-side on Instagram 63,000 people
picked the more neutral iPhone photo and
228,000 people chose the BlackBerry to
win and that made its way as a trend
throughout this whole tournament that's
how polka phone beat iPhone 10 that's
how a p20 pro weed pixel 3 that's how
hydrogen kept winning and that's
eventually how mate 20 Pro made its way
through the whole thing and won it all
it's the brighter less shadowy photo so
I revealed these results to a couple a
couple YouTube friends and photographer
friends ahead of time to get their
reactions see what they thought
yo-yo going online first of all have you
seen or paid attention to any of the
tests we've done this week all of them
don't
I voted in every single one but I did
but I used it through Twitter not
through Instagram yes I voted on every
single one and what what made me feel
kind of good about it is that most of
the time I voted with the majority which
actually like I like to see that okay
we're all kind of moving towards a
consensus
I vote on Twitter when we're having
lunch the other day all of us at the
office we gathered round we all like
made our own picks so yeah we've been
all over it so I'm gonna read you the
names of the 16 phones that we decided
to put in this bracket okay ready tell
me what you think all right pixel three
pixel two iPhone 10's iPhone 10 Huawei P
20 Pro Huawei mate 20 pro motos z2 Force
Galaxy Note 9 HTC u12 plus the Xiaomi
poka phone red hydrogen one plus 60
razor phone - LG v40 palm phone
blackberry key - and the palm front oh
that little tiny one yeah okay
so pretty healthy variety in there
that's the ultimate tournament there I
feel like there's only I only feel like
the iPhone made it pretty far I feel
like I can recognize its photos I could
be wrong I would expect it obviously the
palm foreigner just teach it on the
bottle
[Music]
paka fun I would have guessed near the
bottom teeth probably the pixel three
the iPhone tennis max the Huawei and it
wasn't probably like the note or the
Samsungs oh it's too probably hmm I
might say the mate torn apart so really
depends me I want to see that I want to
see the results all right today I'm
gonna be mu right now the full bracket
how it played out okay
should I text you or Twitter how should
I send you the result it can text me
again I'll text you the actually I got I
got Dave TV with the results here okay
have him show you to bracket what though
I think I was almost gonna say that host
now okay oh I was way off iPhone got
knocked out super fast by blackberry at
the head it's you I wait a minute the
iPhones head at the blackberry beats the
iPhone Ted X oh how did the BlackBerry
beat the iPhone are you kidding me that
is not what I expected
wait a minute okay I really didn t
expect to be surprised yeah or this
surprised wool that's weird
did the may 20 pro nice that's it it's
alright alright dude I totally I totally
think the BlackBerry that is crazy I
guess Mike I'm my eyeballs are just
glued to Pogo fine okay let me see this
bowl right okay the Rays are to beating
the one +60 surprises the hell out of me
home that make may 20 Pro a poco phone
Pogo foam 300 bucks yeah Wow and then
the Polka dude it's the best thing you
can buy I versus Jay
I chose J I is pixel 3j is p20 Pro don't
worry everybody
I did a blind test on myself and I did
the same thing oh god dude I voted for
the I vote for the freaking blackberry
on that one
oh my god are you kidding how is this
possible
I'm I am actually I'm shaking right now
especially it's a polka phone made it
that far
hey beat the hydrogen as well and then I
beat the note 9 and I go 10 this is wild
pixel 3 Wow
that didn't make it past the first round
so everything I just said where the
phones I thought would make it to the
very end no I'm not at all
and Blackberry Wow see my guess as to
why like I'm gonna pull these pictures
of real quick if I had to guess why I
feel like a lot of the iPhone pictures
come out like less saturated and like
maybe that's just a perceived poor
quality image something we noticed
usually usually people don't see photos
side by side very often but when you do
put them side by side
right off the bat people were picking
the brighter photo
oh no I I noticed that too and it was it
was the photos where you were exposed
the best that and usually it's harder
you know bus brothers to get exposure
right when getting when the camera takes
photos of us so anything that you looked
really clear I noticed I was an instant
winner
it didn't matter the dynamic range what
the background looked like if you were
exposed better I noticed I want it every
single time I have seen that happen but
just like that the most contrast and
brightest exposure will win but in a few
of these I felt like people were
choosing the right example like
generally as I was going through them
like yeah I kind of agree with this so
that's what that's why I'm the most
surprised I thought I was like yeah this
isn't too this isn't too bad
and noticing winter like that's kind of
that's very crazy again it's that
brightness I think it's similar to like
volume when you listen to headphones
that are louder even if they're not
better headphones you think they're
better because there's there's more
perceived detail and depth I guess
because you know I have to discern
what's in the shadows but yeah that's
that's really interesting I think
especially when you put them side by
side because most we don't see like
direct side by side they decide the
final image and I got a lot of comments
about like I don't know what the actual
scene looks like yes
but that's also true about most photos
you see in real life you don't know what
the actual scene looks like so people
are just picking it and I just like a
look of like you Paco foam it's the end
man you're gonna mess the lot of heads
here I mean so I don't pay close
attention to
the mate 20 pro or poco phone look like
when they get released I just kind of
hear about it and slightly ignore it so
I just didn't even consider that might
be a possibility I had even thought
about it that's interesting yeah I mean
especially if it is next to each other
but it's so hard to it's like you can't
actually put all of these like next to
each other at the same time and then at
that point everything just gets jumbled
so this is it's such a hard test and I
feel like a lot of this too is a
preference like maybe people prefer this
type of photo over that I mean I feel
like it's art like not everyone likes
the same part you know I think what it
comes down to again is like kind of
maybe you might thought of like we're in
this like world or time of tech when
nothing actually sucks there's a lot of
like amazing things like the poco phone
but yeah I think it's just a mix of
everything maybe what it comes down to
is we all don't know anything I wonder
what would have happened ahead you use
like an older Samsung phone because I
think Samsung's colorscience over the
last couple years has gotten really good
and really natural but rumor had like
oversaturated they used to look a couple
years ago I wonder if that would have
gone all the way to the top like at like
an s6 has that been used just because it
was so much more exaggerated yeah I
think you're right I think something
like five or six years ago when they
were like punching the Reds especially
when in that backpack footage yeah and
super bright I think that might have
actually had a better chance this isn't
saying you know people are gonna go nuts
for the poco for now right they're just
people already argue so much for that
phone but wow I guess it makes sense
right I mean I feel like pretty much all
the images I take on a smartphone or
viewed on other smartphones so I mean it
makes sense yeah is this gonna make you
switch to a poco phone I'm poker phone
all day man all day I'll be honest I
don't care enough about my camera in
2018 to switch a phone for
because I feel like so many of them are
so good I'm just surprised like more
than anything
I'm surprised dude
the puck so there you have it at the end
of the day Huawei made 20 Pro was the
People's Champ side-by-side blindfold
camera winner of 2018 if you're looking
for some kind of scientific conclusion
on which one's the better smartphone
camera from this you're not gonna get
that there is no pixel peeping a lot of
the advantages of certain cameras were
eliminated but at the end of the day you
just got to know what you want from a
camera you got to know if you want it to
look great straight out of the camera
you want it to have an AI that does some
post-processing that makes it look great
for you or if you prefer a more natural
neutral looking photo if you just want
as much information as possible as much
sharpness dynamic range etc so you can
bend it the way you want later those are
two different types of people clearly
from our voting there's a lot more of
the first type of person and that's fine
so that's been the blind smartphone
photo analysis super scientific test of
hope you learned a little bit just like
I did thanks for watching Tasi has in
the next one peace